1 Overview
Outlined in this document is the set of intended topics, objectives and takeaways
from a prospective ‘ways of working workshop’ hosted for the CT programme
April 23rd 2026. At a high level, such an event will look to provide key answers
to set the direction of travel for three primary aspects of the developer experience:
environment management, test automation strategy, and fast routes to
production.
Delivery of the event would be conducted on a small-scale, including only
members of the D365, DevOps, Release Management and Test teams. Inclusion
of stakeholders from the VOA or NGR projects will be at the discretion
of Cognizant leadership. Subject to appropriate space, the workshop would run
similarly to the ‘problem solving days’ hosted by Alan O’Mahoney, with four
tables with pre-prepared discussion points with attendees assigned to the most
relevant group to their roles.
A successful event would deliver a set of programme objectives to propose
to the client for R1.11. Following the session, a business case including financial
estimates would be commissioned for completion across PI-5 whilst preparation
for each of the key takeaways takes place. Any blockers to achieving the
ideal ways of working should be flagged and listed at the April workshop, and
presented to the VOA Assurance lead to seek routes for resolution.
1
2 Agenda
The agenda for the workshop would take up a full working day of CT resources,
with 3hr 45mins dedicated to reaching consensus on the nine key objective
questions set for the day. It is not anticipated that lunch will be included at
the event, and estimated that between 10-12 participants will require transport
reimbursements in order to attend the session.
Time Activity
09:30–10:00 Arrival
10:00–10:15 Introductory Presentation, Group Assignment
10:15–12:30 Group Breakouts (Problem Statements 1 / 2)
12:30–13:30 Lunch
13:30–15:00 Group Breakouts (Problem Statements 2 / 3)
15:00–15:30 Finalize Blocker List, Propose JIRA Decomposition
15:30–15:45 Break
15:45–16:30 Reassembly, Group Presentations, Lessons Learnt
16:30–16:40 Conclusion
16:40–17:00 Sponsors & Leadership Debrief
3 Group Assignment
In assigning groups, each team should have a leading sponsor of the project with
a preconcieved vision of how to move the relevant ways of working in a more
positive direction. They should also include the appropriate delegates from the
DevOps, Release Management and Test teams, as well as a D365 developer representative
to contribute views on how any changes would affect their everyday
work. Finally, two BAs will be required to translate takeaways from the sessions
into a proposed JIRA plan to accompany the final business case.
Environment Management: Tom Bentley* (NGR), Kaloyan Kurtev, Ajay
Soni, Vinoth Hamsavadhanan, AnandWani, Kingshuk Chatterjee, Vijay Bapodora.
Test Automation: Mark Cunningham*, Radha Krishna Kopparthi, X, Y, Z,
Shanmugham Balamurugan, Rudrakshi Wangu.
Routes to Production: Dean Holmes*, Alan O’Mahoney, Mahir Uddin,
Shruthi Jeniga, Hemalatha Esakkimuthu, Ganesh Samel.
Additional Personnel: Matthew Draper*, Scott Cunningham, Suparno Guha,
Sunil Patel, Alex Glass (VOA).
* = Sponsoring Representatives
2
4 Group Objectives
4.1 Environment Management
4.1.1 How do we move away from working in a singular D365 development
environment?
4.1.2 What architectural design patterns are required to achieve
such a solution, and what resources can we reuse from NGR’s
DevOps repository?
4.1.3 Does the ideal environmental management solution marry well
with the ideal fast route to production pipeline?†
4.2 Test Automation
4.2.1 What criteria will need to be met in order to pass through
pull requests based on test automation suite results alone?
4.2.2 How do we reach a world where tests are being submitted
alongside pull requests that introduce new functionality?
4.2.3 [Radha Suggestions]
4.3 Routes To Production
4.3.1 How do we move away from large scale ‘big-bang’ drops
4.3.2 What is the ideal delivery pipeline for fasttracking hotfixes to
Production?
4.3.3 Does the ideal fast route to Production pipeline marry well
with the ideal environment management solution?†
All groups will share an objective to compile a list of HMRC-side blockers that
would prevent the progression of the ideal solution. This can then be surfaced
to the relevant stakeholders, providing a runway for remediation heading into
R1.11. Attending BA’s are to transcribe the proposals from each group to inform
any subsequent business plan or Jira backlog generation.
The session will conclude with stand-up presentations from each of the three
teams, with ’yes/no’ answers to whether they have confidently answered each
of their three problem statements. A 1-5 confidence vote will then be taken
answering ”How confident do you feel in being able to implement the presented
ideal solutions by the end of R1.9?”. This will conclude the ways of working
workshop, with an added slot to debrief findings amongst event sponsors and
Cognizant leadership.
† = Groups 1 / 3 to convene and approach final problem statement after lunch break.
